# Power Job Scheduling Under a Resource Curve

This is the code that I developed during my Summer 2025 REU at Montana State University working with Professor Sean Yaw.

## **Code**

This folder contains all of the necessary code to scrape power jobs from an existing database, schedule those jobs using a variety of algorithms and generate analytical visuals of the performance of each of those algorithms. This folder is where the bulk of the project lives.

### AAC

This folder houses all of the code used to generate a power job schedule by focusing on minimizing the total job power area above the curve (AAC). <br>
The code in this folder is still a work in progress. Therefore, it's algorithms and code still have some bugs that are yet to be resolved. <br>
<br>

- `aac_scheduling_ilp.py` — This program is designed to schedule jobs based on an Integer Linear Program (ILP)  
  that minimizes the total area above the curve.

- `aac_scheduling_lp.py` — This program relaxes the previous ILP into an LP so that it can be solved in polynomial time.  
  It then uses probability to schedule each of the jobs. Each probability is calculated by the LP.

- `aac_scheduling_greedy` — This program uses a greedy heuristic algorithm to attempt to minimize  
  the area above the resource curve.

### PDAC

This folder contains all of the main code to create job power schedules by minimizing the maximum peak power demand above the given resource curve (PDAC). This is the main folder with all of the functional algorithms for analysis.
<br>
<br>

- `pdac_scheduling_ilp.py` — This program is desined to schedule jobs based off of a Integer Linear Program (ILP) that minimizes the maximum peak power demand above the resource curve.

- `pdac_scheduling_lp.py` — This program relaxes the previous ILP into an LP so that it can be solved in polynomial time. It then uses probability to schedule each of the jobs. Each probability is calculated by the LP.

- `pdac_scheduling_greedy` — This program uses a greedy heuristic algorithm to attempt to minimize the area above the resource curve.

- `pdac_scheduling_naive` — This program takes in jobs and schedules them naively. In other words, it takes each job and schedules it at the earliest possible time that it can run.

<br>
There are two other files in this folder that can be used to visualize the ILP and relaxed LP schedules generated by the algorithms.

### Data Visualization

This folder contains all of the code needed to produce visual analysis of the algorithms. In other words, it contains files to produce graphs of the performance of each respective algorithm as well as an example job schedule for them.
<br>

- `exact_pdac_analysis.ipynb` — This file compares the average PDAC produced by the schedule of each of the four algorithms including the exact (ILP) algorithm across a number of trials.

- `inexact_pdac_analysis.ipynb` — This file compares all algorithms but the exact (ILP) algorithm. Therefore, the number of jobs to be scheduled can be significantly increased, as these three have substantially faster run times than the ILP.

- `job_schedule_visualization.ipynb` — This notebook produces a visual of each power job schedule generated by the four algorithms. It can be used to visually analyze the differences in their outputs more closely than simply a PDAC measure.

- `renewable_data_visualization.ipynb` — This notebook just gives a visual representation of the resource data that is used for the job scheduling. The data is comprised of readings from a power station in Washington including wind, solar and hydro energy.

### Job Scraping

This folder houses the code to scrape and format the data from the **Input_Data** folder. It can be used in isolation and does not depend on any of the algorithm files in the **Code** folder to run.

## **Input Data**

This folder contains all of the necessary data in order for the algorithm analyses to operate. Specifically, it houses the data regarding the power jobs and the renewable energy resources, both of which were extracted from real world datasets that are linked to below.
<br>

- `jobs_data.json` — This JSON files contains over ~88,000 different power job instances that can be easily read into a Python dictionary for analytical use. Each job ranges in start time, end time and length. One key property of these jobs is that they do not have any runtime dependencies. In the original dataset, there are many more job instances that do have these dependencies, which could be looked at for future research. [Link to full jobs dataset](https://publikationen.bibliothek.kit.edu/1000094324)

- `resource_data.json` — This JSON file contains all of the renewable resource data used to model the resource curve in the analysis of the different job scheduling algorithms. Specifically, it contains energy resource data (including energy produced by fossil fuels) from the Bonneville Power Administration in Washington State from the week of 5/28/25 - 6/4/25. However, for the purposes of the resource curve modeling in our analysis, we only utilized the energy output produced by renewable sources such as solar, hydro and wind. [Link to full resource dataset](https://www.eia.gov/electricity/gridmonitor/dashboard/electric_overview/balancing_authority/BPAT)

## **Output Data**

This folder contains all of the raw data outputs from our algorithm analyses, including CSV files containing PDAC information and computer runtime information. Additionally, it contains visual representations of these analyses.
